TITLE: Calculation Framework
URL: https://hub.energycomponents.com/repository/site-hub/ec-application/14.2.5/documentation/Energy-Components/14.2.5/technical-documentation/product_concept/calculation_framework.html
STATUS: 200

Calculation Framework
Introduction
The Calculation Framework in Energy Components is used to deploy client
defined business logic applicable (in the form of process diagrams) for
the business processes. The client can create process diagrams which may
contain sub process diagrams, equation processes, Excel workbook
processes and/or implemented calculation library processes, as they
require. This unique feature allows specific process diagrams to be
defined for each operation and applied in a consistent and controlled
manner without the need for a compiler program. Each of the calculations
are configurable - any changes can be added to the calculation process
diagram which will then be applied consistently across the system.
The framework allows the user to build up and/or modify complex process
diagrams containing sub process diagrams, equation processes, Excel
workbook processes and/or implemented calculation library processes
which influence the existing calculations. This is particularly useful
when new assets are being added onto the system, enabling the user to
manage varying calculations and scenarios. The framework has
functionality allowing the user to make complex changes in a test
environment before being launched in the live system - removing the risk
of incorrect calculations entering the live system.
The framework can be used across most business functions including:
Hydrocarbon Accounting / Allocation calculations
Sales / Contract calculations
Price calculations
Cargo Scheduling
The Calculation Framework consists of two main components: the
Calculation Definition Framework and the Calculation Execution
Framework. The Calculation Definition Framework is used to create new
and maintain existing calculation process diagrams. The Calculation
Execution Framework reads and understands the calculation, which is
created from the calculation editor and stored inside the database, and
then executes it in the system.
The basic building elements for calculation process diagrams are
attributes and variables. They refer directly to values already stored
in the Energy Components database. Equations, sets and conditions
combine attributes and variables with arithmetic and logical operators
and functions. The equations then arithmetically deploy the calculation
process diagram, and the sets define the group of objects that the
equation relates to.
Figure 1.
Calculation Framework Overview
Equation Editor
Equations are stored in the Energy Components database in MATHML format.
MATHML is a form of XML (Extensible Mark-Up Language) designed for
mathematic expressions. As illustrated below, MATHML comprises an
editor, an interpreter and a MHT export function.
Calculations (process diagrams) are created using the Flowchart Editor
found in the Maintain Calculation screen (as shown below). In the top
half of the screen the user selects the date, calculation context and
calculation.
Figure 2.
Maintain Calculation - Process Diagram
The user can build iterations, conditions and equations using the
Equation Editor.
Figure 3. Maintain Calculation - Equation Process
Calculations can be changed and are available immediately for execution
without the need for programming or compiling code. The Equation Editor
is a visual editor which provides tools for creating and editing
equations conforming to the EC Calculation Syntax. A basic equation in
the EC Calculation Syntax would have the variable or object components
on the left hand side, and the arithmetic expression on the right hand
side, as shown in the example given below in Equation Syntax 1:
An equation can also have an associated condition in the form of a
logical expression, as shown in the example given below in Equation
Syntax 2:
The equation given below sets the allocated daily net volume for all
incoming oil streams (that are not fixed), equal to the measured daily
stream volume, times the daily oil reconciliation factor:
The Stream Node Diagram
Within Energy Components, a Stream represents a flow from one point to
another. An example would be a pipeline transporting gas. The points
connecting a Stream are called Nodes. Examples of Nodes would be well,
gathering station, platform, terminal. The main purpose of the Stream /
Node concept is to model infrastructure and hydrocarbon flow. Further,
to have a structure for applying quantities and calculations. The
quantities are related to the Streams, e.g. a gas stream holding a
quantity for the mass flowing for a certain period. The calculations are
related to the Nodes, e.g. a calculation summarizing the quantities for
two incoming gas streams and putting the result on the outgoing gas
stream.
The Stream Node Diagram is used to show the structure of the production
of oil and gas through pipelines and terminals. The visual
representation is useful in situations where there is a large network,
incorporating many streams and nodes (or network points and delivery
points). The Stream Node Diagram is configurable using the Visualization
Tool that’s provided alongside Energy Components. This means that any
changes to the diagram can be made using the configuration screens and
can be implemented immediately without the need for programming or
system downtime. There are many functions that can be chosen from the
context menu of the Stream Node Diagram: Auto layout, Edit Object, etc.
Figure 4. Stream Node Diagram Editor - Context Menu
Figure 5. Example of a Stream Node Diagram