TITLE: Configuration Overview
URL: https://hub.energycomponents.com/repository/site-hub/ec-application/14.2.5/documentation/Energy-Components/14.2.5/technical-documentation/product_concept/configuration_overview.html
STATUS: 200

Configuration Overview
Introduction
The major concept behind Energy Components is that it is configurable
without the need for programming expertise or system downtime. Both the
back end functionality and the user interface can be configured. A
unique feature of Energy Components is the ability to allow clients to
reconfigure the system without the need for high level programming
skills. The configuration changes are quick to make and take effect
immediately. New configurations can be added while the system is in use
– avoiding the need for system or user downtime. This makes system
changes financially efficient as well as time efficient. Configurable
areas include:
User interface, screens, and navigation features (referred to as 'Business Functions' in Energy Components)
The methods the system uses to react, calculate and process data (referred to as 'Business Processes' in Energy Components)
With the configuration capability, Energy Components can:
Include or hide new columns
Configure calculated numbers in the reporting layer that can then be displayed as and when required
Be configured for multiple languages
Be configured by role or record status
As illustrated in the screen shown below, the following areas within
Energy Components can be configured by Quorum Software prior to
roll-out, or by the client after roll-out:
Tree View
Navigator
Access to Objects
Units
Audit Tracking
Check Rules
Record Status
Screen Configuration
Tree View menu can be configured
Navigator can be configured
Access to Objects can be configured
Units can be configured
Configuration Options
Tree View
The Tree View can be tailored to meet the requirements of each customer.
Energy Components comes with a standard menu layout where business
functions are grouped together. These can easily be changed to reflect
the customers' workflow and processes. The Tree View will contain
different functions for different users depending on their business area
and the users' level of access rights. When a user does not have access
to a given screen or business function, the screen will not be visible
on the Tree View.
For ease of use, there is also a search field, which allows you to
search for the Energy Components screen or business function you are
searching for. You can also drag and drop your favorite screens into the
Favorites section for easy access.
Navigator
The Navigator can be configured for each screen. Most screens in Energy
Components use a dynamic Group Model Navigator which reads the Group
Model Configuration and populates the columns dynamically. If the Group
Model Configuration is changed, the Navigator (and subsequently what is
shown on the screen) will change to reflect the new model and hierarchy.
Units
The Units used in the application can be changed. There are two types of
Units used in Energy Components, these are:
Display Unit -
Indicates what unit type should be displayed in the screens
Storage Unit -
Indicates what unit type should be stored in the database
Each Unit is configurable for each measurement type. For instance, once
pressure measurements have been configured they will be stored using the same unit measurement throughout the system.
The display unit will be the view unit to the default system of measurement.
System of measurement can be configured per assets for objects in the group model.
This will override the default system of measurement.
Refer to
System of Measurement
.
Although it is possible to change Units within the system, careful
consideration should be given before changing storage units e.g. kg to
tonnes. Changing the storage unit will NOT trigger a recalculation and
conversion of stored data.
Object Access
Object Access components can be configured to limit user access to
specific assets such as network points. This feature prevents users from
seeing specific objects anywhere in the system either in screens or on
any dropdown menus. Object Access can be set up to filter any object
types. This way the system can be configured to meet the needs of
specific users or groups of users (i.e. roles).
Columns
The columns in the screens can be configured. New columns can be added
and existing columns can be hidden from view. Screen labels and column
sort orders can also be changed to meet your requirements.
Calculated Numbers
Columns containing calculated values are configurable and new ones can
be added. These can be hidden in certain screens, yet still made visible
and available in reporting views for use in reports.
Screen and Data Access
Screen and data access can be configured for each individual screen. The
screen access is set up according to user roles, so that users can only
see the screens that are relevant to their roles function. You can also
control the type of access the user has within a screen.
The access levels defined in Energy Components are:
No access
Screen will be invisible for the users with this role
Read
Screen will be read only
Change
Only the 'Save' button will be activated in the screen where applicable
New
The 'Save' and 'New' buttons will be activated in the screen where applicable
Delete
The 'Save', 'New' and 'Delete' buttons will be activated in the screens where applicable
Edit on VERIFIED data
Access to change data with status VERIFIED
Edit on APPROVED data
Access to change data with status APPROVED
New Objects
New objects can quickly be added to the application using the
configuration screens. As soon as the new object has been saved to
Energy Components it is immediately available in the appropriate screens
with no requirement for additional programming.
Audit Tracking
Energy Components automatically keeps a tracking journal of all data
with a record status of 'VERIFIED' or higher. Again, this feature is
configurable and can be changed to keep full information on all records
with status of 'PROVISIONAL' or higher.
Check Rules
Each screen can have one or more Check Rules or validation hints applied
to it. The Check Rules can be configured to automatically monitor the
system for the correctness of data and can prompt the user to correct
data and rerun processes if necessary.
Record Status Processes
System processes can be configured to run and update the record status
automatically, or by manual intervention. These processes can be
tailored to contain specific rules for each implementation project and
customer. Access to these processes can be setup to prevent users from
running unauthorized approval jobs, for example from V (Verified) to A
(Approved), and thereby prevent data from being accidentally changed by
users.
Language
The default language in Energy Components is English. However, the
entire application can be configured to use the language of your choice.
The language template is applied globally to Energy Components, but can
also be configured and tailored for individual users so the system
appears in their native language.