TITLE: EC Extensions Overview
URL: https://hub.energycomponents.com/repository/site-hub/ec-application/14.2.5/documentation/Energy-Components/14.2.5/technical-documentation/frmw/ec-extensions/ec-extensions-overview.html
STATUS: 200

EC Extensions Overview
Introduction
Energy Components has introduced EC Extensions to easily extend and build solutions on top of the core EC product.
These extensions will be managed by EC so that you will have control over which extensions are active and
what modifications they have done to the system. You will also have full control over the extension lifecycle,
including functions (web pages and APIs) to control start, stop, disable, update, database migrate and more.
Extensions are software projects with source code that are built into a binary executable, that can then
be deployed on top of an EC system.
Quorum Software is shipping a number of extensions that can be used on top of EC.
Talk to your Quorum Software representative to get more information about the current status of the available extensions.
Custom extensions
Quorum Software has enable anyone to develop their own extensions, that may be deployed and managed on
top of their EC system.
Manage extensions
Extensions are delivered as binary software components. These binaries can be uploaded into your EC system
and managed from there, see
How to install an EC Extension
.
Use the Extensions Manager screen to manage the lifecycle of extensions.
When the
Run on startup
checkbox is checked in the Extensions Manager, the extension starts when EC boot.
EC downloads the extension from the database and extracts it, verifying that there is no pending database migration
and starts the extension.
When the database migration fails with
Unable to calculate checksum for …​
, the reason could be the file encoding.
The database migration script files should have UTF-8 encoding.
If the extension contains only database migration scripts and the database migration has been run,
the
Run on startup
could be unchecked to prevent EC from downloading and verifying the extension every time EC boot.