TITLE: Classes and Objects
URL: https://hub.energycomponents.com/repository/site-hub/ec-application/14.2.5/documentation/Energy-Components/14.2.5/technical-documentation/product_concept/classes_and_objects.html
STATUS: 200

Classes and Objects
The EC system provides a large degree of flexibility to cater for
different business scenarios. To be able to do this, the system has been
designed with an abstraction view layer in the database that separates
the business logic from the actual table structure used to store the
data. This abstraction is defined as a set of what we call classes -
very similar to the class concept used in object oriented design and
programming languages.
This concept allows us to:
Have common functionality for data validation and integrity constraint without mixing it with the business logic
Choose to make some class attributes virtual (so that they are calculated when needed), or physically store them if needed without changing the table structure
Hide or show product attributes and also add customer class attributes if needed
Adjust and define the screen navigation model to be suitable for both small and larger operations
Control the properties of classes on several levels like packages, templates and project level. See section "Class Configuration Structure".
Enforce data protection with ringfencing and data locking
Support workflow operations, such as four eye approval and control point validation, as generic concepts that can be added to any class
Replicate some data for performance reasons without having the business layer writing special code for it
Change the table structure without interfering with the business logic
The class concept distinguishes between four different class types:
Object classes
Object classes are usually something static such as a physical object.
Typical Object classes are for example: Facility, Tank, Separator and Well.
Data classes
Data classes are typically owned by an object class, and represent a set of measurements or events linked to the owner object.
Daily tank volume readings and exported oil and gas volumes are very often part of a Data class.
Interface classes
Interface classes are abstractions over several object classes with a common subset of attributes.
They are used, among other things, for representing specific physical objects as nodes in a diagram showing how the hydrocarbons are passing through the system.
Table classes
Table classes are similar to data classes, but have less support for validation, row level security, etc.
A table class typically does not have an object owner or a timestamp as a part of the primary key.