// documentation
Documentation
Release Documentation
Installation Guide
Upgrade Guide
Configuration
Technical Documentation
Technical Documentation Overview
Energy Components Business Areas
Energy Components Basic User Guide
Energy Components Product Concepts
EC Framework
Docker Images
Identity & Access Management
Event
Rest API
GraphQL API
EC Integration Services
EC BPM - Business Process Modelling
Extensions
General Configuration and Guidelines
Class Configuration
How to configure Screen Treeview Menu
Unit of Measure Support in Energy Components
System of Measurement
How to get Users and User’s roles
System Property Exclude Synonyms
Four Eyes Approval
How to manage User Exit packages
Calculation Group configuration
Calculation Library
Database Users and Logging
How to change table content PINC logging in install mode
How to configure a Business Action to call SQL procedure
How to use Date Macro Parameter
How to resolve blocked schedules automatically
How to re-pin scheduled jobs
How to define check rules
How to configure Tab Label in EC Screens
How to configure Context Menu
How to configure EC Dashboards
How to Configure the Application Title Bar
How to Configure Table Column Sets
Time Zone Support in Energy Components
Deprecating Ecdp_ProductionDay
How to configure language translation in EC
How to configure Messaging
Navigator default values
How to send messages from EC
How to disable navigator cache
EC Dataloader
Data Purging
Expression and Scripting support
Migration utility functions
REC ID utility
Pendo
EC Data Access Control (eDAC)
Reporting and Analytics
EC Tools
Application Development
Database Development
Flyway
EC Production
EC Chemistry
EC Transport
EC Sales
EC Revenue
How To Get Started
Documentation
14.2.4
Documentation
Technical Documentation
EC Framework
General Configuration and Guidelines
How to resolve blocked schedules automatically
Contents
Introduction
Scheduling the job releasing the blocked jobs
How to resolve blocked schedules automatically
Introduction

To have blocked schedules are in most cases ok and normal. That just means it’s waiting for the currently running job to complete. There are some cases where the scheduler thinks a job is running when it’s not. If the database becomes unavailable while the application server is running, the status of a completed job fails to be updated. Hence, when the database comes back up the status will still be running and the schedule has a false block.

The scheduler has an API that has to be used. Updating the database directly is not the correct way and will cause unexpected behavior. There is a schedule that checks if there are any running jobs that are blocked and unblocks them if that is the case.

Note that there are some jobs that are scheduled at one specific time and others that are repeatable, but it does not matter if executions are skipped. A morning report or instantiation of data is something that you want to do even if the server was offline at the scheduled time. Polling an interface will typically recover even if the jobs have not been fired during maintenance etc. Hence, for the polling jobs, the ignore misfired option should be set to prevent all non-executed jobs to fire when the server is running again. If this is not set it will try to run all schedules not executed while the server was down.

If the jobs are still blocked it should be investigated why the job is running and not completing.

Scheduling the job releasing the blocked jobs

Find the predefined schedule named "ReleaseFalseBlockingJobs" and schedule it to run at a given interval as below.

Go to the job details, set the run as user and make sure it has Ignore Misfires set and Stateful not set. Save if any modifications.

Enable the job.

In the example above, the job has been scheduled to unblock jobs having a wrong status.

Energy Components ©2026