// documentation
Documentation
Release Documentation
Installation Guide
Upgrade Guide
Configuration
Technical Documentation
Technical Documentation Overview
Energy Components Business Areas
Energy Components Basic User Guide
Energy Components Product Concepts
EC Framework
Docker Images
Identity & Access Management
Event
Rest API
GraphQL API
EC Integration Services
EC BPM - Business Process Modelling
Extensions
General Configuration and Guidelines
Class Configuration
How to configure Screen Treeview Menu
Unit of Measure Support in Energy Components
System of Measurement
How to get Users and User’s roles
System Property Exclude Synonyms
Four Eyes Approval
How to manage User Exit packages
Calculation Group configuration
Calculation Library
Database Users and Logging
How to change table content PINC logging in install mode
How to configure a Business Action to call SQL procedure
How to use Date Macro Parameter
How to resolve blocked schedules automatically
How to re-pin scheduled jobs
How to define check rules
How to configure Tab Label in EC Screens
How to configure Context Menu
How to configure EC Dashboards
How to Configure the Application Title Bar
How to Configure Table Column Sets
Time Zone Support in Energy Components
Deprecating Ecdp_ProductionDay
How to configure language translation in EC
How to configure Messaging
Navigator default values
How to send messages from EC
How to disable navigator cache
EC Dataloader
Data Purging
Expression and Scripting support
Migration utility functions
REC ID utility
Pendo
EC Data Access Control (eDAC)
Reporting and Analytics
EC Tools
Application Development
Database Development
Flyway
EC Production
EC Chemistry
EC Transport
EC Sales
EC Revenue
How To Get Started
Documentation
14.2.4
Documentation
Technical Documentation
EC Framework
General Configuration and Guidelines
How to re-pin scheduled jobs
Contents
Introduction
Give Access To Role
Re-pin schedules in Schedules screen
How to re-pin scheduled jobs
Introduction

The re-pinning of scheduled jobs is not usually required. Since scheduled jobs are pinned to either a cluster or a server the scheduled jobs will not automatically be transferred to another cluster or server. If one server needs maintenance it can be taken out of the cluster for a while and the remaining servers will handle the scheduled jobs. However, if it is a standalone server the scheduled jobs have to be pinned to another server. Several users have done this by updating the status in the database directly or via a custom button. The scheduler keeps the state of running jobs in memory and updating directly in the database does not work. Typically, this is not discovered in the test environment due to frequent restarts of the test servers hiding that the job is not pinned to other servers before restarting the server. This can also lead to schedules becoming blocked instead of pinned to the new server as intended.

Hence there is provided a button for re-pinning in the correct way. The button is hidden by default and can be enabled as described below.

Give Access To Role

To enable the button, grant access to the intended roles.

Re-pin schedules in Schedules screen

Re-pinning is done in the Schedules screen. It will re-pin the schedules that are enabled and pinned to other servers. To see which jobs will be affected, filter on the enabled jobs only.

The jobs can be pinned to the server currently serving the screen by clicking the "REPIN JOBS" button. The other server should be shut down gracefully so that already running jobs can complete.

Energy Components ©2026